[RA-1 Ch3+Ch4] Provide content in 3.5 and Remove 4.5 to address OpenStack Topology (#1488)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_arch/openstack/chapters/chapter03.md

<a name="3.5"></a>
## 3.5. Cloud Topology

Please note: This section focuses on central DC based cloud deployments, Edge is currently out of scope.

In order to provide the expected availability for any given service, a number of different OpenStack deployment topologies can be considered.  This section explores the main options and highlights the characteristics of each.  Ultimately the decision rests with the operator to achieve specific availability target taking into account use case, data centre capabilities, economics and risks.

Availability of any single OpenStack cloud is dependent on a number of factors including: 
-	environmental – dual connected power and PDUs, redundant cooling, rack distribution etc. 
-	resilient network fabric – ToR (leaf), spine, overlay networking, underlay networking etc.   It is assumed that all network components are designed to be fault tolerant and all OpenStack controllers, computes and storage are dual-homed to alternate leaf switches.
-	controller nodes setup in-line with the vendor recommendation (e.g. min 3 physical nodes)

> -	network nodes (where applicable) 

Reviewer: @iangardner22 
- Controller nodes setup should be HA based on quorum ( aligned with vendor implementation )

-	storage nodes setup in line with the vendor recommendation

> -	compute nodes – enough to handle the workload after local failure scenario

Reviewer: Backend Storage nodes setup should be HA based on quorum

Author: Will be in next commit - thank you @ASawwaf

> 

Reviewer 2: @iangardner22 do we need to include some of the Topology Considerations deleted from Chapter 4?

Author: OK - what of the following do you think we should keep or merge with the new text?

> A Telco cloud will be deployed in multiple locations (“sites”) of varying size and capabilities (HVAC, for example); or stated slightly differently, multiple telco clouds (i.e. OpenStack end points) will be deployed and they all contain isolated resources that do not rely on each other.   The application must span such end points in order to provide the required service SLA Irrespective of the nature of the deployment characteristics (number of racks, number of hosts, etc.), the intent of the architecture would be to allow VNFs to be deployed in these sites as needed without major changes; if not all as many as possible.
> -	Large data center capable of hosting thousands of servers and the networking to support them
> -	Mini data center (such as a central office) capable of hosting up to a hundred servers
> -	Edge (not customer premise) capable of hosting between ten to fifty servers
> 
> Host profiles (SW Host profile + HW host profile) “partition” the cloud into pseudo sub-clouds, for example, hosts targeted for basic instance types, network intensive instance types and compute intensive instance types. This can happen, because of specific hardware adds and/or hardware and software configurations.  Depending upon the workload types and the capacity requirements, cloud providers and operators may choose to support the instance types with targeted hardware (different number of sockets, RAM, clock speeds, etc.) and host profiles or choose common hardware and minimize the number of host profiles (for example, network intensive and compute intensive types using a common host profile).
> 
> As we get away from the large data centers to the smaller sites it becomes progressively difficult to be able to create enough capacity for each of these instance types in support of their target VNFs or to have a mix of hardware targeted for each instance type.

Reviewer 2: @iangardner22 
I would try and keep:
A Telco cloud will be deployed in multiple locations (“sites”) of varying size and capabilities (HVAC, for example); or stated slightly differently, multiple telco clouds (i.e. OpenStack end points) will be deployed and they all contain isolated resources that do not rely on each other. The application must span such end points in order to provide the required service SLA Irrespective of the nature of the deployment characteristics (number of racks, number of hosts, etc.), the intent of the architecture would be to allow VNFs to be deployed in these sites as needed without major changes; if not all as many as possible.

    Large data center capable of hosting thousands of servers and the networking to support them
    Mini data center (such as a central office) capable of hosting up to a hundred servers
    Edge (not customer premise) capable of hosting between ten to fifty servers
++++++++++++

The other piece about Host profiles should probably go to the relevant section.

Author: OK I will ensure that is incorporated thank you.

The host profiles piece - where would you suggest this goes?

Author: @pgoyal01 - I am incorporating your suggestion but what about host aggregates - where would you recommend?

| Topology Ref| Type| Control Planes| Shared Storage (optional)| Compute AZs| Achievable Service Availability %| Service Multi-region awareness| Notes |
|----------|-----|-----------------|---------------|-----------|---------|--------------|-------------|
| 1 | Local Redundancy - workload spread across servers | 1 | 1 | 1 | Variable | Not required | Suitable where only limited local application availability is required e.g. nova anti-affinity |
| 2 | Regional Redundancy - workload spread across AZs | 1 | >=2 | >=2 | >99.n | Not required | Suitable where local application HA is required. Control plane should be distributed across DC failure domains (assuming layer 2 connectivity) but may be unavailable during upgrades |
| 3 | Global Redundancy - workload spread across multiple Regions | >=2 | >=2 | >=2 | >99.nn | Required e.g. GSLB | Suitable where local and region application HA is required Control plane could be kept available in one site during upgrades |

<a name="3.5.2"></a>
### 3.5.2. Topology Detail 

#### 3.5.2.1. Topology 1	- Local Redundancy

> Under normal operation this deployment can handle a single failure of a controller node or storage node without any impact to the service.   If a compute node fails the application layer (often the VNFm) would need to restart workloads on a spare compute node of similar capability i.e. cloud may need to be provided with n+1 capacity.  In the case of an active/active application deployed to separate compute nodes (with hypervisor anti-affinity) then there would be no service impact.  

Reviewer 2: "In the case of an active/active application deployed to separate compute nodes (with hypervisor anti-affinity) then there would be no service impact."

I think "then" is unnecessary

Author: Done - please review later once my change is committed

*Important to consider:*

-	Where possible servers should be distributed and cabled to reduce the impact of any failure e.g. PDU, rack failure.   Because each operator has individual site constraints this document will not propose a standard rack layout.

> -	During maintenance of the control plane the API may not be available and for some applications this could cause problems when relying on it during BAU application operation and additionally if the upgrade involves updating OpenStack services on the compute nodes.  OVS-kernel operations may also be impacted during this time.

Reviewer 2: Only the control plane APIs should be affected and so shouldn't impact running workloads

Reviewer 3: You can also mention that while control plane is impacted, the data plane (or forwarding plane) is unimpacted

Author: > Only the control plane APIs should be affected and so shouldn't impact running workloads

Agree it shouldn't affect running workloads but if VNFm has to do a scale it will break.

Author: I am making this change now - @pgoyal01 @sukhdevkapur please check it later today.

> -	During maintenance of the control plane the API may not be available and for some applications this could cause problems when relying on it during BAU application operation and additionally if the upgrade involves updating OpenStack services on the compute nodes.  OVS-kernel operations may also be impacted during this time.

Reviewer 4: The BAU acronym is not defined.

Author: > The BAU acronym is not defined.

OK - I used it as a generic term but point taken - I will change to 'normal' instead of Business as Usual

Author: Fixed @kedmison - please check later after commit made

> -	During maintenance of storage (e.g. ceph) there is an increased risk of a service-impacting failure so deploying a minimum of four physical servers is generally recommended.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
-	During maintenance of storage (e.g. ceph) there is an increased risk of a service-impacting failure so it is generally recommended to deploy at least one more server than the minimum required for redundancy.
```
